All right.
Now that the setup is done, let's check out TerraForm with Jenkins in action.
Let's start with a simple example.
In this demo, we are going to learn how you can create a VPC as well as destroy.
Try it everything using TerraForm in Jenkins.
All right, so let's go over the artifacts first.
Then we are going to create the Jenkins file.
All the artifacts for this demo is inside this folder named TerraForm.
So if we click that there are two dot TF or TerraForm file.
Pretty straightforward.
If I go to the new VPC that TF it is creating a new VPC.
It's allocating a slash 16 CIDR range and then it is giving the name of the VPC as demo VPC terraform.
If I go out, the provider type specifies the region where we want to create the VPC.
So the region I'm selecting is US West two.
You can change it as needed.
The other file is Jenkins file, but I would show it directly inside the job.
So let's go to Jenkins and check out the pipeline script.
All right.
This is the Jenkins job.
This is the standard pipeline job.
At this point.
You folks already know how to create a pipeline job and nothing special, no options selected.
So let's go over the pipeline script.
And I have given the same pipeline script inside this GitHub repository for you to check out later.
Anyway, let's go back to the Jenkins job.
All right.
The first step, we are cloning the TerraForm Repository.
So inside the steps, always starting with a good, hearty hello world.
And then I'm doing the checkout.
So I use the pipeline script for that.
So basically pipeline syntax and then from here, select checkout, give the repository URL if it is
private, give the credential, change the branch name and then generate pipeline script.
And it gave me this checkout checkout command, so I just pasted it here.
Then the important part, TerraForm provision.
So I am doing a shell script code block.
So I am keyed into the folder TerraForm because everything is inside the TerraForm folder in the Git
repository and then I'm running the standard TerraForm commands, I'm in it to initialize the TerraForm
stack and then TerraForm plan and then TerraForm apply.
We tell from apply.
If you have run to from apply from a terminal, you know it it prompts you whether to proceed it and
you have to type.
Yes.
So this dash dash auto approve means it is going to say yes and proceed.
One thing to note is whenever you use this change directory or CD in shell script in Jenkins file that
is only active during the duration of the current Shell script.
BLOCK So which is kind of weird.
So as soon as the Shell script block is done, executing the control is going to go out to the main
directory.
So that's why I have given this S-H p.w, our present working directory.
And you will see as soon as the Shell script block is done, executing the P.W dx is going to show that
the control went out of TerraForm.
So if you want to do each of this line as a shell script command such as script CD TerraForm and then
another shell script terraform init like this.
I'm just going to show you.
So let's say if you do this, see the terraform and then if you do see Sage TerraForm in it, it is
not going to work because as soon as this line is done, it is going to go out and then terraform.
It is going to give an error that I don't see any TerraForm file here.
So anyway, we are going to see this as well with this WD and then we have this stage time to kill.
So basically this is where Jenkins is going to ask you whether you want to proceed or not, and it is
going to wait in this stage indefinitely.
So I wanted to show you folks in a blue console that our VPC is created and then we're going to come
back and click Proceed.
And after we click Proceed, it is going to go to this search and destroy stage.
And here also we have to seed, terraform and then semicolon terraform destroy.
Does dash auto approve?
So it is going to go and delete the VPC.
So this is another way to do that.
If you don't want to do a shell script block, you can run multiple Linux commands separated by semicolon.
So this will also work.
All right.
So before I submit this, let's go to my VPC console in a lab.
Lewis So you can see I am in US West.
There is only one default VPC, so another PC should get created after some with this job.
So let's save this and then click build now.
All right, let's go to console output.
All right.
So it cloned the repository and then it did terraform in it, and then it detach from plan and then
terraform apply.
Does dash auto approve?
Also note that remember the present working directory command for the previous shell script block.
Everything was inside terraform folder.
As soon as that block is done, it went out of the TerraForm folder.
It went one level up.
All right, so the VPC is created, so resources one added and now Jenkins job will wait.
So let's go to A.
S and refresh this page.
Here we go.
The new VPC is created Demo VPC, TerraForm and the VPC ID and everything.
If we check the tags.
Here you go.
Purposes Jenkins TerraForm demo name is also demo of VPC TerraForm.
All right, so our VPC is created.
So now let's go back to the Jenkins job so you can click proceed here as well.
And if you click abort, Jenkins job will end with the PC app.
So I wanted to show you another way to do that.
So if you click this dropdown arrow for this job.
And then Harris paused for input.
If you click that, it kind of shows you in a big, bold way.
So I'm going to click Proceed and it is going to take you to the console output and then the VPC is
destroyed.
So if I go back to a WS console, refresh this.
All right.
The demo tab from APC is gone.
All right, folks, this is how you create and destroy a VPC using TerraForm from Jenkins.
So now that we understand how to run a simple terraform, we are going to go one step further and provision
a exe or elastic Kubernetes service cluster using TerraForm.
All right, folks, join me in the next lecture.